How can inconveniencing your audience increase your persuasiveness?
===================================================================

## Mnemonic/Take away
* From "Operators are waiting, call now" to "If operators are busy, please call again"
* "x% of our customers reuse their towels"

## Introduction
Colleen Szot is one of the most successful writers in the paid programming industry. Szot chaned three words to a standard infomercial line that caused a huge increase in the number of people who purchases her products: the all-too-familiars call-to-action line "Operators are waiting, please call now" to "If operators are busy, please call again".

After all, the message seems to convey that potential customers might have to waste their time dialing and redialing until they finally reach a sales representative. 

Instead of those bored, inactive representatives, you're probably imagining operators going from phone call to phone call without a break.

Yet, that surface view underestimtes the power of the principle of social proof.

## Social Proof
When people are uncertain about a course of action, they tend to look outside themselves and to other people around them to guide their decisions and actions.

In the case of the modified "if operators are busy, please call again" line, home viewers followed their perceptions of others' action, even though those others were completely anonymous.

May findings in social psychology demonstrate the power of social proof to influence other people's actions.

Although there's little doubt that other people's behavior is a powerful source of social influence, when we ask people in our own studies whether other people's behavior influences their own, they are absolutely insistent that it does not. We know that people's ability to understand the facors that affect their behavior is surprisingly poor.

## Hotel experiment
In our hotel experiment, we considered the finding that the majority of hotel guests who encounter the towel reuse sign do actually recule their towels at least some time during their stay. What if we simply informed guests of this fact? Would it have any influence on their participation in the convervation program?

We created two signs and placed them in the hotel rooms. One was designed to reflect the type of basic environmental-protection message: it asked the guest to help save the environment and to show their respect for nature by participating in the program. The second sign used the Social Proof information by informing guests that the majority of guests at the hotel recycled their towels at least once during the course of their stay.

Guests who learned that were 26% more likely than those who was the basic enironmental protection message.

Those findings show how being mindful of the true power of Social Proof can pay big dividends in your attempts to persuade others to take a desired course of action.

## Suggestions
You can set up a situation in which your current clients have the opportunity to provide firsthand testimonial to prospective clients about how satistied they are with you and your organization.


