How can we show off what we know without being labaled a show-off?
==================================================================

In trying to convey your expertise to others, and in attempting to persuade them toward your point of view, you might come across as boastful and conceited.

Get someone else to speak on your behalf. Arranging for someone else to introduce your expertise and credential to your audience will do wonders to convince them that they should listen to what you have to say, while also avoiding the damage that blatant self-promotion can cause.

## Fundamental Attribution Error

One of the most common errors that people make, which social psychologistst call the Fundamental Attribution Error (or Attribution Bias) is: 

> when observing another person's behavior, we tend not to give sufficient 
> weight to the role situational factor play in shaping that person's behavior.

or

> the tendency for people to under-emphasize situational explanations for 
> an individual's observed behavior while over-emphasizing dispositional 
> and personality-based explanations for their behavior.

or

> the tendency to believe that what people do reflects who they are

(Classical test: articles about Fidel Castro).

Having a skilled third party who will set up your initial presentation can be a very productive and worthwhle strategy for vonceying your expertise in an area. When giving a presentation to people who don't know you very well, you should arrange for someone else to introduce you to your audience.

To tell people themselves would be seen as boastful and self-promoting, and as a result, not nearly as persuasive.

## Notes and reccomandations

1. Claims must be true
2. Conflicts of Interest don't matter so much: it doesn't seem to matter that the introduction comes from someone who is clearly connected with you.
3. It is effective
4. It is for the most part costless to implement

### Show credentials

Experiment with physicians frustrated with their patients' non-compliance, which was solved by putting their credential (diplomas, certificates, awards) in place in their study.


## Take away
Introductions (like in books) made by third parties are very effective at strengthening your credibility.
