What's the hidden danger of being the brightest person in the room
==================================================================

Watson (who discovered the double-helix structure of DNA) explianed that the most intelligent person working on the project was Rosaling Franklin

> Rosaling was so intelligent that she rarely sought advice. And if you are the brightest person in the room, then you're in trouble.

Leaders in organizations who are dealing with a specific issue on problem should ensure that they collaborate with team members toward its resolution, even if they are the best-informed, most experienced, or most skilled person in the group.

## Why
Behavioral scientists have shown that the approachers and outcomes of groups who cooperate in seeking a solution are not just better than the average member working alone, but are even better than the group's best problem solver working alone.

2 resons:

1. Lone decision-makers can't match the diversity of knowledge and perrspectives of a multi-person unit that includes them.

We can all recall being led to an insight by the comment of a colleage who didn't deliver the insight but who sparked the association tothe best solution.

2. Lone decision-makers lose the significant advantage of parallel processing.

## Reccomandation
Not only employ a vote-counting strategy in order to come to a resolution: on the contrary, not make joint decisions at all. The final choice is always for the leader to make. But it's the process of seeking input that leaders should engage in more collectively.

## Take away
Group > best single expert

Best problem solvers often fail to ask for help and collaboration
