24. Who is the better persuader? Devil's advocate or true dissenter?
====================================================================

Example of the 2 infamous Space Shuttle's deadly incidents

The following exchange between a *Columbia* disaster investigator and the chairwoman of he mission management team:

> Investigator: As a manager, how do you seek out dissentin opinions?
> Chairwoman: Well, when I hear about the...
> Investigator: By their very nature, you may not have heard about them... What techniques do you use to fet them?

The chairwoman had no answer.

SOmetimes, the goal should not be to persuade, but to *allow ourselves to be persuaded by others* if we're learning in the wrong direaction. 

As leades, can we simply ask a mamber of our team to play devil's advocate?

For nearly 4 centuries, the Roman Catholic Church relied on the Advocatus Diaboli, or devil's advocate, to investigate and to present to the Church all the negative aspects of the life and work of a candidate for sainthood.

When it seems that everyone on a team initially agrees on an issue it can be often fruitful to encourage and to seek out alternative points of view. This becomes even more important considering the potentially devastating efects of groupthink and group polariztion, in which the majority opinion in a group becomes more extreme the more it is discussed.

Even the lone dissenter in an otherwise unanimous group may be enough to generate more creative and complex thinking within that group. 

Are devil's advocates - that is peudodissenters - better or worse than authentic dissenters at enhancing the problem-solving abilities of a group of otherwise like-minded people? Much less effective: it could even be [counter-productive](#counter-productive)

The position favored by the devil's advocate seems like disagreement simply for the sake of disagreement. When the majority of members are confronted by a person who tryly appears to oppose their position, they search to understand why the dissenter is so committed to his or her beliefs. In the process, they come to a better understanding of the problem and consider it from a broader perspective.

## Counter productive

There's some eidence that experience with a devil's advocate has the potential to *strengthen*, rather whan weaken, majority members' confidence in their original position, presumably because they believe that they have considered - and subsequently dismissed - all possible alternatives.

## What do do

The best policy for leaders is to create and sustain a work environment in which coworkers and subordinates not only feel welcome but are also *encourages* to opensly disagree with the majority viewpoint. For leaders to create a better environment, the first step is to have a little humility: check your ego.
