What's the best way to turn a weakness into a strength
======================================================

Example of a bookstore where the clerk says "Are you sure you want to buy those books here? The bookstore just down the street is sellin it for about 15 perent less than our price".

The same happens for the Progressive Auto Insurance. Car owners searching for auto insurance rates could use the Progressive website not only to learn about Progressive's rates, but also to learn about the rates offered by Progressive's major competitors.

In an experiment, partecipants looking to buy books in a simulated online environment reported being more likely to shop from a moderately priced bookseller when that bookseller also provided its competitor's (sometime lower) prices.

Other example: the success of the Beetle car can be largely attributed to the firm's engineering of one of the greatest ad campaigns in the history of advertising. This campaign certainly broke with the industry's conventional wisdom at the time: they touted its weaknesses with slogans such as "Ugly is only skin deep" and "It will stay uglier longer".

The slogan by Avis was "We're #2, but we try harder (When you're not #1 you have to)".

## Why is this strategy successful?
Arguing against your self-interest, which can include mentioning a drawback of your arguments and proposals creates the perception that you and your organization are honest and trustworthy. This puts you in a position to be more persuasive when promoting you genuine strenghts. In the case of Volkswagen, the Beeetle wouldn't win any beauty contests, but its strengths were durability, fuel economy, and price.

Evidence for this strategy has been found outside the domains of marketing as well. When jurors heard a lawyer mention a weakness in his own case before the opposing attorney mentioned it, jurors evaluated him as more trustworthy and were more favorable to his overall case in their verdicts, because of that perceived honesty.

The strategy can also be applied at the negotiating table. For example, if there's a small area in which your leverage is weak, your negotiating partner is likely to see you as more trustworhy if you mention it up fron rather than having it to be discovered later.
