When is it right to admit that you were wrong?
==============================================

## Take away
When communicating failures, blaming internal causes is better than blaming external ones, because it makes the organization appear to have greater control over its own resources, and it has a plan to modify them.

If you've made a mistake or a bad decision, you should admit the mistake, immediately followed by an action plan demonstrating that you can take control of the situation and rectify it.

## Summary

It takes bravery and a sense of humilty to admin one's mistake which is perhaps why it is so rare to see organizations and the people within them take the blame for a misstep or a midjudgment.

Social scientists suggest that organizations that attribute failures to internal causes will come out ahead not only in public perception, but also in terms of the profit time. They argue that blaming internal, potentially controllable failures makes the organization appear to have grater control over its own resources and future.

They also suggest that the public response to an organization's internal focus to explain failures might be to assume that the organization has a plan to modify the internal features of the organization.

## Why is blaming external factors ineffective?

Why is this behavior such a rarity? Often the usual response to a costly or embarrassing error is to attempt to blame someone or some external factors to divert attention from the source of the problems.

1. This strategy is likely to be ineffective because it does nothing to prove to skeptics that we have any control over the prolems and the ability to fix it.

2. Even if we do manage to distract attention from our mistake in the short term, the spotlight will eventually find its way back to us in the long term, potentially highlighting not only our mistake but also our deceptive impulses.

If you've made a mistake or a bad decision, you should admit the mistake, immediately followed by an action plan demonstrating that you can take control of the situation and rectify it. This let you be perceived not only capable, but also honest.
