When is a loser a winner?
=========================

## Take away
If the product of the information is unique and exclusive, point it out: people generally show desire for objects and information when they learn it's unique or available in limited quantity.

## Summary

In the year 2003, there was clearly one car line that exceeded all U.S sales projections to a far greater extent than any other. Its sales skyrocketed. It couldn't have been driven by advertising: in fact, because of disappointing sales, there was even less money available for marketing.

The car line was the Oldsmobile, and the reason for its success was paradoxical: General Motors had decided is was going to discontinue the line due to consistently poor sales. In response of the announcement that the Oldsmobile would soon no longer be available, sales jumped like never before.

## Scarcity Principle
Why? The answer lies in the Scarcity Principle: people show a greater desire for an object or opportunity when they learn it's unique, available in limited quantities, or obtainable for only a limited time.

Another example: immediately after British Airways announced in February 2003 that it would be permanentely grounding flights on the Concorde, the sale of seats on the plane did the opposite: they took off.

If you run a business, you would be well advised to provide information to your customers about what is genuinely rare and unique about your products and services.

There is a less tangible domain in which the scarcity principle operates both subtly and powerfully: the domain of infomation. Information that is exclusive is viewed as both more valuable and more persuasive.

When purchasers were told that the information about shortage of Australian beef came from an exclusive source and was not generally available to the rest of the public, they increased their orders.

If you pass along information that is uniquely known by you, but fail to point out the exclusivity of the information, you could be losing an excellent opportunity to use an effective and ethical influence technique.
