What can you gain from loss?
============================

## Take away
The things people like more is less valuable to them than the things they feel they are losing.

Loss aversion is the idea that people are more motivated to avoid losses than they are to acquire gains.

Instead of presenting an idea as a saving, you're likely to be more persuasive if you frame the initiative in terms of losing the same amount if it fails to get adopted.

If you believe a salesperson with whom you're negotiatin is manipulating your loss aversion, you should wals away: it's the salesperson who should feel the loss.

## Summary

In response to data that more people preferred Pepsi's sweeter tat, Coca-Cola Company decided to pull their traditional formula for Coke off the market and replace it with a sweeter "New Coke".

A retire Seattle investor named Gay Mullins became a national celebrity by establishing a society called Old Cola Drinkers of America. He worked tirelessly to get the traditional formula back. It didn't matter to him that, in two separate blind taste tests, he either preferred New Coke over the original or couldn't tell the difference between them.

Note that the thing Mr. Mulling *liked more* was less valuaable to him than the things he felt he was losing.

This relates to people's sentitivity to losing something they already have, and to the scarcity principle (see [33.md](When is a loser a winner?).

## Why?

During tests, there was a clear preference for the new Coke. When the company finally introduced the new Coke, people expressed a clear preference for the old Coke.

Consider the role scarcity principle played in each step of the timeline: during the taste tests, it was the new Coke that was unavailable to pleple for purchase, so, whent they knew which sample was which, they showed an especially strong preference for that they couldn't otherwise have. 

## Loss aversione

The tendency to be more sensitive to possible losses thn to possible gains is one of the bet supported findings in social science. It's called Loss Aversion: the idea that people are more motivated to avoid losses thatn they are to acquire gains.

For example, one consequence of loss aversion is that it ofen motivates inexperienced investors to prematurely sell stocks that have gained in value because they simple don't want to lose what they've already gained. Similarly, the desider to avoid any potential for a loss also motivateds there investors to hold on to stock that have lost value since the date of purchase. Because selling the stock at that point would be to formally and irrevocably take a loss on the investment, many of these investors are reclutant to to do.

Marketers often frame their message in terms of what the prospective clients have to gain from the product. In such cases, however, they may well be wasting an opportunity to present their message in an entirely more persuasive way by focusing on what the audience stands to lose in the situation.

Rather than using language such as "Take this opportunity to try our new product line at a 20% discount" one might be more successful using language such as "Don't miss out on this opportunity to try our new product line at a 20% discount". In the latter xample you would be pointing out to the audience that because the deal is scarce in some way (e.g. limited time), they're *in danger* of genuinely losing the opportunity to purchase the products with the current discount.

### Opportunity

Let's say you have anm idea that, if adopted, can potentially produce saving of up to one hundred thousans dollans a year for your department. Instead of presenting that idea as a saving, you're likely to be more persuasive if you frame the initiative in terms of losing the same amount if it fails to get adopted.

Also, if you believe a salesperson with whom you're negotiatin is manipulating your loss aversion, you should wals away: it's the salesperson who should feel the loss.
