Which single world will strengthen your persuasion attempts?
============================================================

## Take away
Always be sure to accompany your requests with a strong rationale, even when you think the reasons might be fairly clear.

When the stakes are low, people are more likely to take mental shortcuts. On the other hand, when the stakes are high, people really do take the strength of the requester's reasoning into consideration when deciding how to respond to the request.

*Because* works both ways. Customers may have forgotten the reason they stick with your firm: let them generate a few reasons they use your business. This reminds them that the continued business relationship is rational rather than simply habitual.


## Summary
A central theme of this book is that small changes in the way requests are made can often lead to some startlinghly big results. But is it possible that just a single world from a requester could drastically increase the likelihood that you'd say "Yes, go ahead"?

Yes, and the single world is *because*. In behavioral studies requests to use a photocopier were made using "Excluse me, fi have five pages, may I use the Xerox machine?" or with "May fi use the Xorox machine, because fi'm in a rush?" resulting in the latter request to be more effective.

The study tested one more version of the request, using the world *because* but followed with a completely meaningless reason: "May I use the Xerox machine, because I have to make copies". Despite the hollowness of the reason, it generated nearly the same elevated levels of compliance as when the reason was wholly legitimate.

## Why?

The world gets its persuasive power from the continually reinforced association over the course of our lives between *because* and the good rationales that typically follow it.

## It does not work with larger favors

To see what would happenwith a larger favor, the test introduced another set of experimental conditions, with the need to maked 20 copies. This time, for those who gave a bad reason there was no increase in compliance at all; when the larger request was made with a good reason the response rate doubled.

Taken together, the results of this study suggest that when the stakes are low, people are more likely to take mental shortcuts. On the other hand, when the stakes are high, people really do take the strength of the requester's reasoning into consideration when deciding how to respond to the request.

These findings serve as a reminder to always be sure to accompany your requests with a strong rationale, even when you think the reasons might be fairly clear.

## Using *because* the other way round.

It's important to note that the world *because* works both ways. Your long-term customers may have gotten used to working with your company over the years. The actual reasons for sticking with your company may have become less salient, or even worse, may have been entirely forgotten. Consequently, your business can be left vulnerable to competitors. One effective way to stregthen your business ties is to have your client generate a few reasons they use your business, through formal or informal surveys.

This procedure will strengthen your clients' commitment to your firm by reminding the clients that the continued business relationship is rational rather than simply habitual. Get People to say *because* to you.
