When might asking for all the reasons be a mistake?
===================================================

## Takeaway
Dont' ask people to generate too many reasons to be in favor of some ideas: the proces would be hard. People will base their judgment not on the number of reasons they generated but on the easiness or difficulty of generating them.

You can potentially give yourself a competitive edge by asking your audience to generate many reasons in favor of your rival's offering.

## Summary

[In the previous chapter we discussed](35.md) how having people generate reasons that they're in favor of a certain position can be a hightly effective strategy for strengthening their beliefs in that position. It's not wise to encourage them to think of as many reasons as possible: researches suggest that under certain circumstances this strategy can actually backfire.

A different groupd of business students were asked 2 different kinds of questions:

* BMW or Mercedes, there are many reasons to choose a BMW. Can you name *one*?
* BMW or Mercedes, there are many reasons to choose a BMW. Can you name *10*?

The second request generated *lower* evaluation of the BMW and highter evaluations of the Mercedes.

## Why
When they were asked to name only one reason, partipants had a relatively easy time coming up with a single advantage. When they were asked to name 10, the task was hard. They found the process of coming up with so many reasons to be difficult. Rather than using the *number* of reasons they generated as the best indicator for their evaluations of the branch, they intead based their judgments on the was or difficulty of the process of generating reasons.

## The other way round
You can potentially give yourself a competitive edge by asking your audience to generate many reasons in favor of your rival's offering.

You might want to consider the extent to which your product involves actions that are novel of foreign to them.
